Focus on getting stronger every single
workout. You want to have your logbook
or your X3 app and get the regular X3
and just you count your full reps and
your partial reps. Because imagine your
training and you're one half repetition
away. Like you've already tied your
previous best. But you can do just a
half repetition
beyond what you did last time, that's
going to be the trigger for growth. That
means you're getting stronger every
time. Because if you can do that half
rep, that means you got stronger from
last workout. And because you did
something that you've never done before,
it means you're going to be stronger on
the next workout.
>> [music]
>> Hi. My name's John Jaquish. Today I want
to talk about the fact, and it's a fact,
muscular size and muscular strength are
exactly the same thing. There's a whole
bunch of people that will tell you that
they are different things. But I'm going
to show you evidence to explain why they
are, for the most part, wrong. I can
tell you what the confusing parts are.
Uh and once you understand what you're
really trying to do is become as strong
as possible so that you can build as
much muscle as possible,
everything becomes clear.
Because if you don't realize that and
you think that the volume argument has
the same validity that the high
intensity argument does, you're going to
be confused. Your workout is going to be
really suboptimal
because you're just going to be doing
all sorts of volume and that's not how
anything happens in the body. And then
you're just going to end up spinning
your wheels. I'll start with my story.
Uh when I first developed X3,
and then even before that,
I developed OsteoStrong, a medical
device for bone density.
Everything having to do with bone
and triggering the growth of it had to
do with the highest possible intensity
of exposure to force.
So, for example, the hip joint. The
minimum dose of force to go through this
hip joint to trigger growth is 4.2
multiples of body weight. Now, let me
give you an example. You could go four
multiples of body weight and do 100
repetitions.
And what will it do for your bone
density? The answer is nothing.
Absolutely nothing. But if you do one
loading cycle, so not 100 reps, one rep,
of a force that is beyond 4.2 multiples
of body weight. Let's say it's 4.2 or
4.3.
One exposure to that level of force
triggers the growth. So, it's a perfect
example of how the central nervous
system sees
a trigger. Sees like a certain
threshold. And we can measure it very
accurately. This is This is very well
known. And probably one of the best
studies I've ever read was what
determined this. And And it was done
with very careful radiology into the
bone
uh pre- and post-load exposures.
Phenomenal study.
So,
also that study's never been challenged.
Uh and it works in line with a lot of
the observations that were made about
bone and how bone density grows all the
way from 1895 when Dr. Julius Wolff
wrote the laws of mechanotransduction,
which is basically how we put mechanical
force through the body and how the body
adapts. So, very important, never been
challenged or disproven. Now, when you
take that into that same logic and you
look at muscular growth, it's like if
you're if you're if a muscle is capable
of lifting 300 lb
and you can do it 10 times. If you go
and use 200 lb and do 10 repetitions,
that will do nothing.
Absolutely nothing.
What you have to do is if you can do the
300 lb 10 times,
you go all out and you you train like
that. So, there's already a problem
though.
And this is why the volume guys do have
a voice. It's safety. So, ultimately, if
you look at like the American College of
Sports Medicine or the National Academy
of Sports Medicine, these are two very
public-facing
training societies sports performance
societies where they're trying to curate
and they they also, well, at least the
ACSM has a few different academic
journals. So, why are all these journals
seem seemingly obsessed with talking
about high volume studies? Like there
was one where I read that somebody was
doing 23 sets per workout per exercise.
It was It was actually squat. 20 23 sets
of squats.
Maximum effort. Now,
you can throw that study in the trash
because
if you ask ChatGPT how many maximum
efforts can you have with the same
muscle group
in one workout, it says between one and
three.
So, how is this other I mean, it's
referencing
tons of data. And when you see that and
then you see somebody saying max effort
23 different times with the same
exercise, either they're they're lying
that this happened at all or they did
not train with max effort, which is
probably the case. And if they didn't
train with max effort, then they're just
really not doing anything.
You're just basically just screwing
around in the gym. My particular example
is everybody's seen my before and after
pictures.
My first 2 years, it was one set all out
diminishing range. So, you know, you go
to fatigue here and then as you go to
deeper levels of fatigue, the reps get
shorter and shorter. So, you fatigue in
that stretched range of motion, but
first you fatigue at the top. So, you're
you you Let's say I'm holding 550 here.
I can't get there anymore. Then I'm
doing reps with 400. Then I'm doing reps
with 300. Then I'm doing reps with 200.
So,
as that happens, a much more profound
level of exhaustion happens. And that's
the trigger for growth. But what it's
doing when I do it with variable
resistance like I just demonstrated
here,
I take the risk out of it. And that's
really
what variable resistance is. A little
different way I'm talking about variable
resistance. Uh yeah, there are some
special properties and yeah, it is
profoundly better and I can demonstrate
that scientifically, but a lot of people
have trouble getting their head around
it. So, just think about it this way. I
can take my 90-year-old mother and run
her through heavy deadlifting
partially because she's been doing it
for a while. Uh obviously I started her
off very light, but
the chances of injury with variable
resistance are much lower. And the
exposure to high levels of mechanical
tension are
incredible. Way beyond what you get with
weights. That's why the strapline of the
product is greater force, greater gains.
So, you're training with tremendous
forces. And coincidentally, a study just
came out. Mechanical tension is
seemingly the only trigger
for growth. Now, it's associated with a
pump and metabolites pooling in the
muscle. And while all that's great,
those things are not seen
as what drives growth. It's the
mechanical tension that drives growth.
Because those other things are sort of
downstream of the mechanical tension.
So, you need that relevant mechanical
tension and velocity loss, which means
as you're moving it, you're fatiguing.
And when you do it with variable
resistance, you can just get to a much
deeper level of fatigue, more powerful
stimulus. So, you spend way less time
exercising. Way more time growing and
the risk to you is so much less. And
again, these organizations that are very
outward-facing trying to engage the
training public, the reason they're
talking about reps in reserve and
basically training like a and and
not really lifting heavy weights and
just doing set after set after set is
because this is what has has worked or
can work for elderly deconditioned
people.
So, you're really doing like the care
home workout when you're training with
volume. Like the idea is
these guys are going to give people the
information so that they can go to a gym
with very little knowledge and not get
hurt.
Well, by doing that, you're also telling
them 52 sets per body part, which would
end up being like something like 10 or
20 hours of training per week, which do
you think elderly people are going to do
that? Let me back up. Do you think
anyone is going to take the time to do
that other than maybe a professional
bodybuilder who's decided that the
inefficient path is what he or she wants
to go down? Maybe. I don't know. Sounds
like a lame program to me. So,
here's the takeaway.
Focus on getting stronger every single
workout.
You want to have your logbook or your X3
app. Uh there's two apps. There's one
that goes along with the force bar, but
then we have an a free one. That That
one costs $15 a month. And you have to
get the force bar. Don't worry about
that one. Get the regular one. It's free
and then and get the regular X3 and just
you count your full reps and your
partial reps. Because
imagine you're training and you're one
half repetition away. Like you've
already tied your previous best,
but you can do just a half repetition
beyond what you did last time,
that's going to be the trigger for
growth. That means you're getting
stronger every time. Cuz if you can do
that half rep,
that means you've got stronger from last
workout. And because [music] you did
something that you've never done before,
it means you're going to be stronger on
the next workout.
Keep that in mind. I look forward to
seeing your comments.
>> [music]
>> See you on the next one. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights.
We've got the answer for you.
>> [music]